docs/concepts.rst, before:

Concepts
========

Architecture
____________

Overview
********

Ochopod is a small layer written in Python_ that is intended to run inside containers (for instance Docker_ or
Rocket_). Its primary goal is two fold:

1. It provides automatic synchronization amongst multiple containers as well as remote reporting capabilities.
2. It runs and manages an underlying process (e.g some web-server, 3rd-party, etc.), restarting it if required.

We leverage this synchronization capability to implement an explicit configuration process where each container is
asked to get itself in order while having access to a full, consistent view of the other containers around it. This
model is fully automated and just require the user to define the actual configuration logic, typically to render
a few files on disk.

The stack
*********

Ochopod is meant to be used on top of modern resourcing technologies. Our stack is made of three distinct
layers : a pool of resources (either virtualized or bare-metal), the resourcing layer (Mesos_ plus one or more
frameworks such as Marathon_ or Aurora_) and finally the application layer on top (e.g Docker_ and whatever runs in
the containers).

.. figure:: png/stack.png
   :align: center
   :width: 45%

As mentioned above Ochopod runs into containers. From a functional standpoint it acts as a cross between an init and
a distributed configuration service (e.g Etcd_ or Doozer_). The catch is that Ochopod will rely on the resourcing layer
to store its state: in other words it will piggy back on the internal Zookeeper_ ensemble used by Mesos_. This allows
you to run your stuff without having to worry about managing yet another piece.

.. note::
   There is no strong constraint around what Zookeeper_ ensemble you used. In fact you could point Ochopod to use any
   ensemble out there. Re-using the Mesos_ infrastructure for synchronization is however very convenient.

Ochopod is completely independent from the resourcing layer underneath. The only relationship between the two is
the fact the resourcing layer indirectly spawns containers which in turn run Ochopod.

.. note::
   We don't expect any specific resourcing or containerization technology. Ochopod has been developed and tested
   with a Mesos_, Marathon_, Zookeeper_ and Docker_ stack but could be easily extended to suit more situations, for
   instance running over Yarn_.

Terminology
***********

A container is a self-contained processing unit which is pre-setup with some software (this is for instance
accomplished in Docker_ using a *Dockerfile*). Container images are immutable and act as a canonical unit for
functionality and versioning.

A live container running Ochopod is called a **pod**. The resourcing layer will run tasks which will spawn one or
more such pods. One or more pods running off the same image will form a **cluster**. If you instantiate your
*webserver* image 3 times you will end up with a 3 pod cluster (not running necessarily on the same resource nor
exposing the same ports).

.. note::
   Please note a cluster does not necessarily map to one single Marathon_ application for instance. Clusters are
   orthogonal to the underlying framework data-model.

Clusters are your basic lego blocks upon which you build more complex distribute systems. Now since the same resource
pool may end up running pods sharing a container image in different contexts (consider for instance various deployments
of the same service) we assign clusters to a **namespace**. Clusters within the same namespace can see each others.
This semantic is useful to isolate various flavors of the same component (for instance your development and staging
pods).

Within a cluster there is always one **leader**, the rest of the pods being **followers**.

The pods
________

Layout
******

Our pods all follow the same general idea. The *Dockerfile* defines what bits and pieces should be installed in
the container. This includes of course the Ochopod SDK and usually an init system (I like myself to use the cool
Supervisord_ utility). The init system boots and runs a Python_ script that uses Ochopod. That's pretty much it.

.. figure:: png/container.png
   :align: center
   :width: 45%

Synchronization & clustering
****************************

Synchronization is currently performed using Zookeeper_. Upon booting each pod will write some information about
itself under a node named after the cluster and attempt to grab a lock. The pod obtaining the lock becomes the
**leader** and will start a specific watch process: any modification to the cluster (e.g new pods registering for
instance) will trigger a configuration phase.

During the configuration phase the leader requests each pod (including itself) to stop, get setup and run whatever it's
supposed to run. This process is ordered, consistent, sequential or parallel depending on the needs and is coupled with
an additional check to make sure it's okay to go ahead (typically to flag any missing dependency or side-effect). The
most important element to remember is that information about all the pods forming the cluster is known at configuration
time, which allows us to perform tricky cross-referencing (look at the Zookeeper_ configuration for a good
illustration of what I mean).

Once the configuration phase is successful a hash is persisted. This hash is compounded from all the pods and is used
as a mechanism for 3rd parties to tell instantly if any change did occur. If a pod specifies dependencies the same
technique applies : any change of a dependency hash will also trigger a re-configuration. This is purely transitive
and does not involve any graphing.

.. figure:: png/clustering.png
   :align: center
   :width: 45%

.. note::
   A partial and/or transient loss of connectivity between the pods and Zookeeper_ will result in the leader being
   notified. To avoid spurious re-configurations of the cluster we use a **damper** (a configurable time threshold).
   The hash guarantees we can easily filter situations where one or more pods appear to vanish (connectivity loss) and
   re-register shortly after.

.. note::
   It may happen we physically lose the leader pod (either that or it is subject to a connectivity loss). In that case
   another pod in the cluster will obtain the lock and become the new leader. A re-configuration will then be
   scheduled should the previous leader is gone for good.

Registration
************

When registering to Zookeeper_ each pod will create a transient node with a unique random id. Its payload is a JSON
object whose key/value pairs represent basic information describing stuff such as where the pod runs and what ports
they expose.

This data is merged from two sources :

1. Environment variables passed by the running framework (Marathon_ in our case). This is also a way for the user to
   pass settings.
2. Bindings specific logic, for instance by querying the underlying EC2 instance to grab our current IP.

The important settings are the internal/external IPs used to locate the pod and its port re-mappings (which depend on
the framework used). This payload stored in Zookeeper_ is used and passed down by the leader when configuring the
cluster.

Each pod has a unique identifier (UUID) plus a unique index generated from Zookeeper_. This index is not guaranteed to
span a continuous interval but is indeed unique within the cluster and throughout the lifetime of the pod.
Disconnecting and reconnecting to Zookeeper_ will not affect the UUID nor the index.

HTTP I/O
********

Communication between pods is done via REST/HTTP requests (each pod runs a Flask_ micro-server listening on a
configurable control port). This HTTP endpoint is also used to implement various lookup queries (log, pod
information).

All requests return some json payload. **HTTP 200** always means success while **HTTP 410** indicates the pod has
already been killed and is now idling. Soft failures will trigger a **HTTP 406**.

Each pod can receive the following HTTP requests:

 - **POST /info**: runtime pod information.
 - **POST /log**: current pod log (up to *32KB*).
 - **POST /reset**: forces a pod reset and re-connection to Zookeeper_.
 - **POST /control/on**: starts the sub-process.
 - **POST /control/off**: gracefully terminates the sub-process.
 - **POST /control/check**: runs a configuration pre-check.
 - **POST /control/kill**: turns the pod off which then switches into idling.

The **POST /info** request is meant to provide dynamic information about the pod, typically for 3rd party tools
to check whether it is idling or not for instance. The request returns a subset of the settings stored in Zookeeper_
along with some runtime settings, most importantly *process*. A value of *running* means the pod has been configured
successfully and is running his sub-process while *dead* indicates the pod has been terminated and is now idling.
For instance:

.. code:: python

    {
        "node": "i-300345df",
        "task": "marathon.proxy-2015-03-06-13-40-19.c14e769b-c406-11e4-afa0-e9799",
        "process": "running",
        "ip": "10.181.100.14",
        "public": "54.224.203.40",
        "ports": {
            "8080": 1025,
            "9000": 1026
        },
        "application": "marathon.proxy-2015-03-06-13-40-19",
        "state": "follower",
        "port": "8080"
    }

The state-machine
*****************

Upon startup the pod will idle until it receives a **POST /control/on** request from its leader. When the configuration
succeeds the pod will fork whatever process it's told to. This sub-process will then be monitored and restarted if
it exits on a non zero code. Any further configuration request will first gracefully terminate the sub-process before
re-forking it.

.. note::
   You can define custom logic to handle the sub-process health-check and tear down.

Upon fatal failures the pod will gracefully slip into a dead state but will still be reachable (for instance to grab
its logs). Additional requests are also supported to manually restart the sub-process or turn it on/off. During
re-configuration any pod tagged as dead will be skipped silently and therefore not seen by its peers.

Framework bindings
__________________

Each framework has specific ways to convey settings to its tasks. The SDK offers bindings (e.g entry points) which will
know how to read those settings and start the pod. The contract between the pod and the framework is minimal and
revolves mostly around getting the pod the data it needs.

Ochopod does not define any data-model of its own to manage pods, version them, perform rolling deployments, etc. This
is typically built on top by defining custom tools and taking advantage of each framework capabilities. For instance
Marathon_ offers enough semantics with its application REST API to implement a simple CI/CD pipeline.

.. note::
   We only offer bindings to run over Marathon_ and EC2 at this point.

.. _Aurora: http://aurora.incubator.apache.org/
.. _Chef: http://www.getchef.com/chef/
.. _Docker: https://www.docker.com/
.. _Doozer: https://github.com/ha/doozer
.. _Etcd: https://github.com/coreos/etcd
.. _Flask: http://flask.pocoo.org/
.. _Marathon: https://mesosphere.github.io/marathon/
.. _Mesos: http://mesos.apache.org/
.. _Python: https://www.python.org/
.. _Rocket: https://github.com/coreos/rocket
.. _Supervisord: http://supervisord.org/
.. _Yarn: http://hadoop.apache.org/docs/current/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-site/YARN.html
.. _Zookeeper: http://zookeeper.apache.org/

Commit message:

now supporting HTTP POST /control/signal + doc update

docs/concepts.rst, after:

Concepts
========

Architecture
____________

Overview
********

Ochopod is a small layer written in Python_ that is intended to run inside containers (for instance Docker_ or
Rocket_). Its primary goal is two fold:

1. It provides automatic synchronization amongst multiple containers as well as remote reporting capabilities.
2. It runs and manages an underlying process (e.g some web-server, 3rd-party, etc.), restarting it if required.

We leverage this synchronization capability to implement an explicit configuration process where each container is
asked to get itself in order while having access to a full, consistent view of the other containers around it. This
model is fully automated and just require the user to define the actual configuration logic, typically to render
a few files on disk.

The stack
*********

Ochopod is meant to be used on top of modern resourcing technologies. Our stack is made of three distinct
layers : a pool of resources (either virtualized or bare-metal), the resourcing layer (Mesos_ plus one or more
frameworks such as Marathon_ or Aurora_) and finally the application layer on top (e.g Docker_ and whatever runs in
the containers).

.. figure:: png/stack.png
   :align: center
   :width: 45%

As mentioned above Ochopod runs into containers. From a functional standpoint it acts as a cross between an init and
a distributed configuration service (e.g Etcd_ or Doozer_). The catch is that Ochopod will rely on the resourcing layer
to store its state: in other words it will piggy back on the internal Zookeeper_ ensemble used by Mesos_. This allows
you to run your stuff without having to worry about managing yet another piece.

.. note::
   There is no strong constraint around what Zookeeper_ ensemble you used. In fact you could point Ochopod to use any
   ensemble out there. Re-using the Mesos_ infrastructure for synchronization is however very convenient.

Ochopod is completely independent from the resourcing layer underneath. The only relationship between the two is
the fact the resourcing layer indirectly spawns containers which in turn run Ochopod.

.. note::
   We don't expect any specific resourcing or containerization technology. Ochopod has been developed and tested
   with a Mesos_, Marathon_, Zookeeper_ and Docker_ stack but could be easily extended to suit more situations, for
   instance running over Yarn_.

Terminology
***********

A container is a self-contained processing unit which is pre-setup with some software (this is for instance
accomplished in Docker_ using a *Dockerfile*). Container images are immutable and act as a canonical unit for
functionality and versioning.

A live container running Ochopod is called a **pod**. The resourcing layer will run tasks which will spawn one or
more such pods. One or more pods running off the same image will form a **cluster**. If you instantiate your
*webserver* image 3 times you will end up with a 3 pod cluster (not running necessarily on the same resource nor
exposing the same ports).

.. note::
   Please note a cluster does not necessarily map to one single Marathon_ application for instance. Clusters are
   orthogonal to the underlying framework data-model.

Clusters are your basic lego blocks upon which you build more complex distribute systems. Now since the same resource
pool may end up running pods sharing a container image in different contexts (consider for instance various deployments
of the same service) we assign clusters to a **namespace**. Clusters within the same namespace can see each others.
This semantic is useful to isolate various flavors of the same component (for instance your development and staging
pods).

Within a cluster there is always one **leader**, the rest of the pods being **followers**.

The pods
________

Layout
******

Our pods all follow the same general idea. The *Dockerfile* defines what bits and pieces should be installed in
the container. This includes of course the Ochopod SDK and usually an init system (I like myself to use the cool
Supervisord_ utility). The init system boots and runs a Python_ script that uses Ochopod. That's pretty much it.

.. figure:: png/container.png
   :align: center
   :width: 45%

Synchronization & clustering
****************************

Synchronization is currently performed using Zookeeper_. Upon booting each pod will write some information about
itself under a node named after the cluster and attempt to grab a lock. The pod obtaining the lock becomes the
**leader** and will start a specific watch process: any modification to the cluster (e.g new pods registering for
instance) will trigger a configuration phase.

During the configuration phase the leader requests each pod (including itself) to stop, get setup and run whatever it's
supposed to run. This process is ordered, consistent, sequential or parallel depending on the needs and is coupled with
an additional check to make sure it's okay to go ahead (typically to flag any missing dependency or side-effect). The
most important element to remember is that information about all the pods forming the cluster is known at configuration
time, which allows us to perform tricky cross-referencing (look at the Zookeeper_ configuration for a good
illustration of what I mean).

Once the configuration phase is successful a hash is persisted. This hash is compounded from all the pods and is used
as a mechanism for 3rd parties to tell instantly if any change did occur. If a pod specifies dependencies the same
technique applies : any change of a dependency hash will also trigger a re-configuration. This is purely transitive
and does not involve any graphing.

.. figure:: png/clustering.png
   :align: center
   :width: 45%

.. note::
   A partial and/or transient loss of connectivity between the pods and Zookeeper_ will result in the leader being
   notified. To avoid spurious re-configurations of the cluster we use a **damper** (a configurable time threshold).
   The hash guarantees we can easily filter situations where one or more pods appear to vanish (connectivity loss) and
   re-register shortly after.

.. note::
   It may happen we physically lose the leader pod (either that or it is subject to a connectivity loss). In that case
   another pod in the cluster will obtain the lock and become the new leader. A re-configuration will then be
   scheduled should the previous leader is gone for good.

Registration
************

When registering to Zookeeper_ each pod will create a transient node with a unique random id. Its payload is a JSON
object whose key/value pairs represent basic information describing stuff such as where the pod runs and what ports
they expose.

This data is merged from two sources :

1. Environment variables passed by the running framework (Marathon_ in our case). This is also a way for the user to
   pass settings.
2. Bindings specific logic, for instance by querying the underlying EC2 instance to grab our current IP.

The important settings are the internal/external IPs used to locate the pod and its port re-mappings (which depend on
the framework used). This payload stored in Zookeeper_ is used and passed down by the leader when configuring the
cluster.

Each pod has a unique identifier (UUID) plus a unique index generated from Zookeeper_. This index is not guaranteed to
span a continuous interval but is indeed unique within the cluster and throughout the lifetime of the pod.
Disconnecting and reconnecting to Zookeeper_ will not affect the UUID nor the index.

HTTP I/O
********

Communication between pods is done via REST/HTTP requests (each pod runs a Flask_ micro-server listening on a
configurable control port). This HTTP endpoint is also used to implement various lookup queries (log, pod
information).

All requests return some json payload. **HTTP 200** always means success while **HTTP 410** indicates the pod has
already been killed and is now idling. Soft failures will trigger a **HTTP 406**.

Each pod can receive the following HTTP requests:

 - **POST /info**: runtime pod information.
 - **POST /log**: current pod log (up to *32KB*).
 - **POST /reset**: forces a pod reset and re-connection to Zookeeper_.
 - **POST /control/on**: starts the sub-process.
 - **POST /control/off**: gracefully terminates the sub-process.
 - **POST /control/check**: runs a configuration pre-check.
 - **POST /control/kill**: turns the pod off which then switches into idling.
 - **POST /control/signal**: triggers custom user logic.

The **POST /info** request is meant to provide dynamic information about the pod, typically for 3rd party tools
to check whether it is idling or not for instance. The request returns a subset of the settings stored in Zookeeper_
along with some runtime settings, most importantly *process*. A value of *running* means the pod has been configured
successfully and is running his sub-process while *dead* indicates the pod has been terminated and is now idling.
For instance:

.. code:: python

    {
        "node": "i-300345df",
        "task": "marathon.proxy-2015-03-06-13-40-19.c14e769b-c406-11e4-afa0-e9799",
        "process": "running",
        "ip": "10.181.100.14",
        "public": "54.224.203.40",
        "ports": {
            "8080": 1025,
            "9000": 1026
        },
        "application": "marathon.proxy-2015-03-06-13-40-19",
        "state": "follower",
        "port": "8080"
    }


The **POST /control/signal** request is a generic placeholder for out-the-band logic. Take for instance the case where
you need to switch your web-tier into a special mode or maybe update your load-balancer configuration on the fly. This
can be neatly packaged in your pod script and activated using a single HTTP request.

The state-machine
*****************

Upon startup the pod will idle until it receives a **POST /control/on** request from its leader. When the configuration
succeeds the pod will fork whatever process it's told to. This sub-process will then be monitored and restarted if
it exits on a non zero code. Any further configuration request will first gracefully terminate the sub-process before
re-forking it.

.. note::
   You can also define custom logic to handle the sub-process health-check and tear down. The default tear down is
   implemented by sending a SIGTERM and waiting for the sub-process to terminate (for up to a minute).

Upon fatal failures the pod will gracefully slip into a dead state but will still be reachable (for instance to grab
its logs). Additional requests are also supported to manually restart the sub-process or turn it on/off. During
re-configuration any pod tagged as dead will be skipped silently and therefore not seen by its peers.

Framework bindings
__________________

Each framework has specific ways to convey settings to its tasks. The SDK offers bindings (e.g entry points) which will
know how to read those settings and start the pod. The contract between the pod and the framework is minimal and
revolves mostly around getting the pod the data it needs.

Ochopod does not define any data-model of its own to manage pods, version them, perform rolling deployments, etc. This
is typically built on top by defining custom tools and taking advantage of each framework capabilities. For instance
Marathon_ offers enough semantics with its application REST API to implement a simple CI/CD pipeline.

.. note::
   We only offer bindings to run over Marathon_ and EC2 at this point.

.. _Aurora: http://aurora.incubator.apache.org/
.. _Chef: http://www.getchef.com/chef/
.. _Docker: https://www.docker.com/
.. _Doozer: https://github.com/ha/doozer
.. _Etcd: https://github.com/coreos/etcd
.. _Flask: http://flask.pocoo.org/
.. _Marathon: https://mesosphere.github.io/marathon/
.. _Mesos: http://mesos.apache.org/
.. _Python: https://www.python.org/
.. _Rocket: https://github.com/coreos/rocket
.. _Supervisord: http://supervisord.org/
.. _Yarn: http://hadoop.apache.org/docs/current/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-site/YARN.html
.. _Zookeeper: http://zookeeper.apache.org/
